(beeping)
(soft acoustic music)
All right, in this video
we are going to look at setting up MySQL
in the Spring Boot context.
Now, the first thing that we need to do
is we need to add in the MySQL driver,
and you can see there on line 63 of the Maven pom
I've added in the MySQL driver for us,
so now that will be available to our project.
And also, please note I am not adding
in the version at this time,
and this is something important with a Spring Boot project
because we do have the Spring Boot parent pom,
and we're going to inherit version information from that,
so that in this way, we are not messing
with those curated dependencies.
So we're going to depending on the Spring guys
to be setting up the proper version of the driver,
so we're going to trust in that to be working properly.
So this configuration gives us the MySQL driver,
but it does not give us the version.
So, that is going to be getting inherited
from the Spring Boot parent pom.
Now, the next thing that we need to do
is add in some configuration for that.
Now, if you remember, here I have added in
an application-dev.yml file just for fun
because I thought it'd be fun to use yml
in this example, rather than a plain old,
boring properties file. And as you know,
we can mix and match those.
So I could easily create one as a properties file,
and a different one as a yaml file.
But let's step through what's going on in here.
So, we're setting up the Spring data source URL,
so see jdbc:mysql, and localhost which is fine.
In my case, it's running in a Docker container,
and we are pointing it to the port 3306,
which is the standard MySQL database port,
and then the /sfg_dev, that is the database
that we want to connect to.
And then we set up the username and password.
Now, typically if you're in a Enterprise,
setting up free-text password like that
is definitely frowned upon.
A lot of times, what you're going to do
is not set the password in the properties file,
but you'll pass that in as an environment variable,
and then that's one way around the audit requirements.
Another way is to set up encryption on that,
I do get into that in my DevOpps course,
may add that to that course later,
as far as encrypting properties there,
I think it's a good practice to do,
but a lot of times what I will do when I'm running these
and different environments in the Enterprise,
those password values that I'll prefer to use
and an environment variable that is set
in the operating system environment,
and gets pulled in that way.
And the next thing we need to talk about
is the jpa hibernate ddl-auto,
and in this case, we are setting it to validate.
When you're running against a database,
especially in a production database,
you do not want Hibernate doing dml changes,
or I should say ddl, so, and also in this case,
because of the way we set up our user accounts,
they could not do it, so they would get smacked down,
but I feel it's a good idea to put validate there
because this is going to tell Hibernate
to go in and check the schema, make sure that the schema
that it finds is as expected.
We're going to set up the database platform,
the database of MySQL, and in dev,
we are going to go ahead and set the parameter show-sql,
so we'll see the SQL statements in the console as it runs.
So that's a pretty handy thing for dev,
but contrast with the prod configuration,
I set that to false,
because we don't want to clog up our logs
and production with SQL statements,
so I'm going to show you this run, now, so.
And inside of IntelliJ, what's nice is,
you can come in and set an active profile,
so I'm going to go ahead and set this to dev.
Say apply and okay, and now we go ahead and run this,
and we can see that we get a failure on startup,
and that's because the schema validation is failing.
Now if I come back up here and edit configurations,
and remove that,
now I'm going to run it again,
and this time it's going to come up,
and that's because now, because I didn't specify a profile,
it's defaulting back to the H2 in-memory database, where,
here, the validate is actually the create-drop option.
So that's a Spring Boot default, so that's why
when we're running inside the H2 database,
we're going to be running with the ddl auto of create-drop,
against MySQL we're going to do validate instead.
Let's see if that...
So in this way, as we're doing development against this,
this is a pretty handy configuration that we've set up here
because it allows me to, without a profile,
run against the H2 in-memory database,
and do my rapid development,
as we've been seeing throughout this course,
and now when I want to connect to a real database,
a persistent database, I can switch my profile
and have that profile pick up those database properties.
Now I do want to point out, here, what we are doing here,
you'll see a lot of misunderstanding,
especially out there in blog posts,
where they'll actually go in and create a bean,
a data source bean for the different databases,
and like I said, that is a perfectly valid way of doing that
to go in and declare a data source bean,
but understand that if we set these properties
for Spring Boot, Spring Boot is going to configure
that data source for us, with these properties,
so we don't have to explicitly set that data source bean.
So important piece of information there.
You will see it done differently.
It's not necessarily incorrect,
sometimes I will do that myself, no particular reason,
sometimes I think it's a little bit more readable,
but as I've become more and more comfortable
with Spring Boot, this is kind of
my preferred way of doing it,
and I think it's simpler because you're not
explicitly declaring that Spring bean
in a configuration class.
You're allowing the Spring Boot autoconfiguration
to pick up these properties
and configure the data source bean for you.